Z-Wave terminology: change controller to adapter (#39805)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/zwave_js.markdown

Throughout this documentation, Home Assistant terminology is used. For some of the concepts, the terminology does not correspond to the terminology used in Z-Wave documentation. The table below provides equivalents for some of those terms.

| Z-Wave functionality | Home Assistant | Definition |
| -------------------- | -------------- | ---------- |
| barrier operator | cover | |

> | controller | adapter, when referring to the hardware device that provides the Z-Wave functionality. The term controller is still used when referring the network role (such as primary, secondary controller)  | |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| controller | adapter, when referring to the hardware device that provides the Z-Wave functionality. The term controller is still used when referring to the network role (such as primary, secondary controller)  | |
```

| exclusion | remove | The process of removing a node from the Z-Wave network |
| inclusion | add | The process of adding a node to the Z-Wave network |
| multilevel switch | represented by different entity types: light, fan etc. | |
| replication | copy (not supported in Home Assistant) | The process of copying network information from one adapter to another. Not supported in Home Assistant. |

> | window covering | cover | |

Reviewer 2: This looks like an unintended formatting change.

Author: no, that was intended, I found it more readable to sort the list. you don't like it?

Reviewer 2: I meant that it was layouted like a table before and now most whitespace is gone.

Author: yes, but with all that white space, as I added content, each line span across multiple lines and it was hard to read

To run a Z-Wave network, you need the following elements:

> - A [supported Z-Wave adapters](/docs/z-wave/controllers/#supported-z-wave-usb-sticks--hardware-modules). First-time user? For recommendations on what to buy, go [here](#which-z-wave-adapter-should-i-buy).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A [supported Z-Wave adapter](/docs/z-wave/controllers/#supported-z-wave-usb-sticks--hardware-modules). First-time user? For recommendations on what to buy, go [here](#which-z-wave-adapter-should-i-buy).
```

## Migrating a Z-Wave network to a new adapter

Do this if you have an existing Z-Wave network and want to use a new adapter. This will reset your current adapter (remove all network information from it) and remove the adapter from Home Assistant. The Z-Wave integration with all its entities will stay in Home Assistant. The new adapter is added to Home Assistant and paired with the existing network.

### Prerequisites

- Administrator rights in Home Assistant
- If you want to migrate from a 500 series adapter, before starting migration, update the adapter to SDK 6.61+
  - Check the documentation of your device to see if and how they can be updated.
  - [Steps to update Aeotec Z-Stick 5](https://aeotec.freshdesk.com/support/solutions/articles/6000252294-z-stick-gen5-v1-02-firmware-update).

### To migrate a Z-Wave network to a new adapter

1. In Home Assistant, go to {% my integrations title="**Settings** > **Devices & services**" %}.
2. Select the **Z-Wave** integration.
   - Then, select the cogwheel {% icon "mdi:cog-outline" %}.
3. Under **Backup and restore**, select **Migrate adapter**.
4. Select **Migrate to a new adapter**.

   - To confirm device reset, select **Submit**.

>    - **Info**: This will initiate a backup of the network information and factory reset the adapter. All the stored network information will be removed.

Reviewer: Side note: We now no longer reset the old adapter during the migration. We didn't update the docs yet to reflect that.

Author: oh, thx! Let me fix that in a separate PR.

Author: https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/pull/39823

#### Network devices

The following features can be accessed from the device panel of any Z-Wave device on your network aside from the adapter:

![Z-Wave device panel](/images/integrations/z-wave/z-wave-device-info.png)

- **Configure:** Provides an easy way to look up and update configuration parameters for the device. While there is an existing action for setting configuration parameter values, this UI may sometimes be quicker to use for one-off changes.
- **Re-interview:** Forces the device to go through the interview process again so that Z-Wave-JS can discover all of its capabilities. Can be helpful if you don't see all the expected entities for your device.

> - **Rebuild routes:** Forces the device to rediscover its optimal route back to the adapter. Use this if you think you are experiencing unexpected delays or RF issues with your device. Your device may be less responsive during this process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Rebuild routes:** Discovers new routes between the adapter and the device. Use this if you think you are experiencing unexpected delays or RF issues with your device. Your device may be less responsive during this process.
```
The old text was not necessarily correct - I don't trust the Z-Wave firmware to actually find optimal routes.

> - **Remove failed:** Forces the adapter to remove the device from the adapter. Can be used when a device has failed and it can't go through the normal exclusion process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Remove failed:** Removes the device from the adapter without excluding the device from the network. Can be used when a device has failed and it can't go through the normal exclusion process.
```
I think this distinction is important. The device will still think that it is part of the network (unless it already left the network)

### `zwave_js.event`

> This trigger platform can be used to trigger automations on any Z-Wave JS adapter, driver, or node event, including events that may not be handled by Home Assistant automatically. Refer to the linked [Z-Wave JS documentation](https://zwave-js.github.io/node-zwave-js/#/) to learn more about the available events and the data that is sent along with it.

Reviewer 2: This is actually referring to the [controller events](https://zwave-js.github.io/zwave-js/#/api/controller?id=controller-events), which are also named like that in code. I don't think we're going to rename this.

> This trigger platform can be used to trigger automations on any Z-Wave JS adapter, driver, or node event, including events that may not be handled by Home Assistant automatically. Refer to the linked [Z-Wave JS documentation](https://zwave-js.github.io/node-zwave-js/#/) to learn more about the available events and the data that is sent along with it.

Author: ```suggestion
This trigger platform can be used to trigger automations on any Z-Wave JS controller, driver, or node event, including events that may not be handled by Home Assistant automatically. Refer to the linked [Z-Wave JS documentation](https://zwave-js.github.io/node-zwave-js/#/) to learn more about the available events and the data that is sent along with it.
```

      - lock.back_door
    config_entry_id:
    # `event_source` and `event` are required

>     event_source: node   # options are node, adapter, and driver

Reviewer 2: dito

>     event_source: node   # options are node, adapter, and driver

Author: ```suggestion
    event_source: node   # options are node, controller, and driver
```

| ---------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `trigger.device_id`    | Device ID for the device in the device registry (only included for node events). |
| `trigger.node_id`      | Z-Wave node ID (only included for node events).                                  |

> | `trigger.event_source` | Source of event (node, adapter, or driver).                                   |

Reviewer 2: dito

> | `trigger.event_source` | Source of event (node, adapter, or driver).                                   |

Author: ```suggestion
| `trigger.event_source` | Source of event (node, controller, or driver).                                   |
```

This sections lists functionality that is available in Z-Wave but that is not currently supported in Home Assistant.

### Setting the adapter into learn mode to receive network information

> In Home Assistant, it is currently not possible to set the Z-Wave adapter into learn mode to receive network information from another adapter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Home Assistant, it is currently not possible to set the Z-Wave adapter into learn mode to receive network information from another controller.
```
Technicality, but I'd say the 2nd "controller" was referring to the network role.

### Including / excluding a adapter in an existing network using [classic inclusion](#classic-inclusion-versus-smartstart)

> A Z-Wave controller that manages an empty network can also join a different network and act as a secondary controller there. However, with Home Assistant, this is not possible. Home Assistant does not allow the Z-Wave controller to join another network, because Home Assistant acts as the central hub.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Z-Wave adapter that manages an empty network can also join a different network and act as a secondary controller there. However, with Home Assistant, this is not possible. Home Assistant does not allow the Z-Wave adapter to join another network, because Home Assistant acts as the central hub.
```
On the same note, one might argue that the first and third instance here refers to the hardware? Maybe?

This sections lists functionality that is available in Z-Wave but that is not currently supported in Home Assistant.

### Setting the adapter into learn mode to receive network information

> In Home Assistant, it is currently not possible to set the Z-Wave adapter into learn mode to receive network information from another controller.

Reviewer: This sentence reads weird since we use different words for the same concept (adapter/controller). I'd switch to use the same word in both places.

> In Home Assistant, it is currently not possible to set the Z-Wave adapter into learn mode to receive network information from another controller.

Author: ```suggestion
In Home Assistant, it is currently not possible to set the Z-Wave controller into learn mode to receive network information from another controller.
```

### SmartStart

> SmartStart enabled products can be added into a Z-Wave network by scanning the Z-Wave QR Code present on the product with an adapter providing SmartStart inclusion.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
SmartStart enabled products can be added into a Z-Wave network by scanning the Z-Wave QR Code present on the product with an adapter supporting SmartStart inclusion.
```
I think this makes more sense.
